Citi Bike Analysis

Popularity Dashboard:
The four maps show a comparison of the number of trips taken by Citi Bike riders during June 2019 and June 2020. The colors help to distinguish the most popular start and end stations for rides in June during both years. The stations located at the outskirts of the city are primarily used as end stations, whereas the majority of the most popular start stations are clustered near one area closer to the city. These maps primarily shows the decrease in Citi Bike trips from this June compared to that of last June, which is also shown by the following dashboard.

Demographics Dashboard:
The two graphs compare the number of trips taken by age and gender of riders during June 2019 and June 2020. The gender legend is identified as follows: [0] = Undefined, [1] = Male, [2] = Female. Using this scale, excluding customers identified as undefined, males were typically more frequent users of Citi Bikes than females. Also, the majority of riders were born between 1980 and 2000. The frequency of usertypes shown below the graphs depict a decrease in the amount of both Customer and Subscriber riders from June 2019 to June 2020. Although the vast majority of riders were Subscribers in June 2019 and remained in the majority in June 2020, there was a significant increase in Customer riders in June 2020. The general decrease in riders may be explained by the COVID-19 pandemic, as potential Citi Bike riders quarantine. However, the jump in Customer frequency could be a result of a safer (in terms of COVID-19 health and safety measures) means of transportation, rather than ride-sharing applications, for example, for riders who wouldn't normally use Citi Bikes (non-Subscribers).